# Understanding Monte Carlo Tree Search: Definition, Explanations, Examples &
Code

Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) is a best-first, rollout-based tree search
algorithm. In a given state of the game, MCTS starts by simulating a random
game to the very end, then updates the value of the played moves based on the
game's result. This process is repeated many times, each time building a tree
of explored game states. When deciding on the actual move to play, MCTS
chooses the move that leads to the most promising state, i.e., the state with
the highest average result over the simulations. MCTS has been used
successfully in many domains, perhaps most famously in the game of Go, where
it was a key component of DeepMind's AlphaGo program that defeated the world
champion.

## Monte Carlo Tree Search: Introduction

Domains | Learning Methods | Type  
---|---|---  
Machine Learning | Reinforcement | Heuristic Search  
  
Monte Carlo Tree Search, often abbreviated as MCTS, is a best-first, rollout-
based tree search algorithm that has gained popularity in the field of
artificial intelligence. This heuristic search algorithm starts by simulating
a random game to the very end, and then updates the value of the played moves
based on the game's result. This process is repeated many times, each time
building a tree of explored game states. When deciding on the actual move to
play, MCTS chooses the move that leads to the most promising state, i.e., the
state with the highest average result over the simulations.

MCTS has been successfully applied in many domains, including the game of Go,
where it was a key component of DeepMind's AlphaGo program that defeated the
world champion. The algorithm falls under the category of reinforcement
learning, as it learns from experience by updating the values of the moves
played based on the game's outcome.

## Monte Carlo Tree Search: Use Cases & Examples

Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) is a best-first, rollout-based tree search
algorithm. In a given state of the game, MCTS starts by simulating a random
game to the very end, then updates the value of the played moves based on the
game's result. This process is repeated many times, each time building a tree
of explored game states. When deciding on the actual move to play, MCTS
chooses the move that leads to the most promising state, i.e., the state with
the highest average result over the simulations.

MCTS has been used successfully in many domains, perhaps most famously in the
game of Go, where it was a key component of DeepMind's AlphaGo program that
defeated the world champion. But MCTS has also been used in other games such
as chess, shogi, and poker, as well as in other domains such as robotics,
scheduling, and traffic control.

In robotics, MCTS has been used for motion planning and control, where the
robot has to navigate through an environment while avoiding obstacles. In
scheduling, MCTS has been used to optimize the scheduling of jobs in a
factory, leading to increased efficiency and reduced costs. In traffic
control, MCTS has been used to optimize the timing of traffic lights at
intersections, leading to reduced congestion and improved traffic flow.

MCTS is a type of heuristic search and can be combined with reinforcement
learning to further improve its performance. Reinforcement learning can be
used to learn the values of the game states, which can then be used by MCTS to
guide its search towards more promising states.

## Getting Started

To get started with Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS), you will need to
understand the basics of the algorithm and have some experience with Python
and machine learning libraries such as numpy, pytorch, and scikit-learn. MCTS
is a best-first, rollout-based tree search algorithm that has been used
successfully in many domains, including the game of Go.

Here is an example of how to implement MCTS in Python:

    
    
    
    import numpy as np
    import random
    
    class Node:
        def __init__(self, state, parent=None):
            self.state = state
            self.parent = parent
            self.children = []
            self.wins = 0
            self.visits = 0
    
        def is_leaf(self):
            return len(self.children) == 0
    
        def is_root(self):
            return self.parent is None
    
        def uct_score(self, exploration, temperature):
            exploitation = self.wins / self.visits
            exploration = exploration * np.sqrt(np.log(self.parent.visits) / self.visits)
            return exploitation + exploration
    
        def select_child(self, exploration, temperature):
            if not self.is_leaf():
                scores = [child.uct_score(exploration, temperature) for child in self.children]
                return self.children[np.argmax(scores)].select_child(exploration, temperature)
            else:
                return self.expand()
    
        def expand(self):
            new_state = self.state.get_next_state()
            new_child = Node(new_state, self)
            self.children.append(new_child)
            return new_child
    
        def update(self, result):
            self.visits += 1
            self.wins += result
    
    class MCTS:
        def __init__(self, state, exploration=1.0, temperature=1.0, simulations=1000):
            self.root = Node(state)
            self.exploration = exploration
            self.temperature = temperature
            self.simulations = simulations
    
        def search(self):
            for _ in range(self.simulations):
                node = self.root.select_child(self.exploration, self.temperature)
                result = self.rollout(node.state)
                while not node.is_root():
                    node.update(result)
                    node = node.parent
                self.root.update(result)
    
        def rollout(self, state):
            while not state.is_terminal():
                action = random.choice(state.get_legal_actions())
                state = state.get_next_state(action)
            return state.get_result()
    
        def get_best_action(self):
            scores = [child.wins / child.visits for child in self.root.children]
            return self.root.children[np.argmax(scores)].state.get_last_action()
    
    

This example code defines two classes: Node and MCTS. The Node class
represents a node in the search tree, and the MCTS class is responsible for
performing the search.

The search is performed by repeatedly selecting a child node to expand,
simulating a random game from that node, and then backpropagating the result
up the tree. The best action is then chosen based on the number of wins and
visits for each child node.

To use this code, you will need to define your own State class that implements
the get_next_state, get_legal_actions, is_terminal, and get_result methods.
You can then create an instance of the MCTS class and call the search method
to perform the search.

## FAQs

### What is Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS)?

Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) is a best-first, rollout-based tree search
algorithm. In a given state of the game, it starts by simulating a random game
to the very end, then updates the value of the played moves based on the
game's result.

### How does MCTS work?

MCTS builds a tree of explored game states by repeatedly simulating and
updating the value of the played moves based on the game's result. When
deciding on the actual move to play, it chooses the move that leads to the
most promising state, i.e., the state with the highest average result over the
simulations.

### What domains has MCTS been used in?

MCTS has been used successfully in many domains, perhaps most famously in the
game of Go, where it was a key component of DeepMind's AlphaGo program that
defeated the world champion. It has also been used in other games, robotics,
scheduling, and planning.

### Is MCTS a type of heuristic search?

Yes, MCTS is a type of heuristic search.

### What learning methods are used in conjunction with MCTS?

Reinforcement learning is one of the learning methods that can be used in
conjunction with MCTS.

## Monte Carlo Tree Search: ELI5

Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) is like a treasure hunter exploring a vast
uncharted island to find the most valuable treasure hidden in it. Initially,
the treasure hunter explores a path on the island which leads him to a final
point, where he gets the value of the treasure in that path. By following this
process multiple times, he constructs a tree of paths with their corresponding
values of treasure. Finally, he chooses the most promising path with the
highest average value of treasure that leads him to the most valuable treasure
on the island. Similarly, MCTS, in a given state of the game, simulates a
random game to the end and updates the value of the played moves based on the
game's result. It repeats this process many times to build a tree of explored
game states. When deciding on the actual move to play, MCTS chooses the move
that leads to the most promising state, i.e., the state with the highest
average result obtained from simulations.

How does MCTS work?

MCTS works by simulating a repeatable random game, and it builds a tree of
explored game states. It selects the most promising moves based on averaging
the results from many simulations. The overall game strategy of MCTS is that
it constructs the tree of the game state space by simulation and gradually
refines the tree to yield the optimal strategy.

What is the advantage of using MCTS?

The key advantage of using MCTS is that it can find high-quality solutions to
complex problems, where other traditional search algorithms can't. Also,
MCTS's reinforcement learning fits multiple domains such as games,
optimization problems, pathfinding, and more.

What is the disadvantage of using MCTS?

The main disadvantage of using MCTS is that it can be computationally
expensive when we have to search over large game spaces. In addition, more
simulation iterations can lead to more accurate results, but it will also
require more processing time.

How did MCTS help in DeepMind's AlphaGo?

Monte Carlo Tree Search was one of the critical components that helped
DeepMind's AlphaGo program defeat the world champion in the board game of Go.
Using MCTS, it was able to search faster and deeper into the game state space,
allowing it to calculate the optimal move sequence that yielded a winning
strategy.

  *[MCTS]: Monte Carlo Tree Search