# Understanding Partial Least Squares Regression: Definition, Explanations,
Examples & Code

Partial Least Squares Regression (PLSR) is a **dimensionality reduction**
technique used in **supervised learning**. PLSR is a method for constructing
predictive models when the factors are many and highly collinear. It is a
regression-based approach that seeks to find the directions in the predictor
space that explain the maximum covariance between the predictors and the
response.

## Partial Least Squares Regression: Introduction

Domains | Learning Methods | Type  
---|---|---  
Machine Learning | Supervised | Dimensionality Reduction  
  
Partial Least Squares Regression (PLSR) is a popular algorithm in the field of
machine learning and predictive analytics. It is a dimensionality reduction
technique used to construct predictive models when dealing with highly
collinear factors. In PLSR, the algorithm finds a linear combination of
predictor variables that is most closely related to the response variable.
This method is particularly useful when dealing with a large number of
predictor variables, as it helps to reduce the dimensionality of the dataset
without losing too much information.

PLSR falls under the category of supervised learning, which means that the
algorithm requires labeled training data to build the model. It is commonly
used in fields such as bioinformatics, chemometrics, and finance, where the
number of variables is often much larger than the number of observations, and
where traditional linear regression models may not be suitable.

By utilizing PLSR, engineers and data scientists can build more accurate
predictive models and gain insights into complex systems with highly collinear
variables.

In this guide, we will explore the inner workings of PLSR, its advantages and
disadvantages, and provide examples of how it can be used in real-world
applications.

## Partial Least Squares Regression: Use Cases & Examples

Partial Least Squares Regression (PLSR) is a method for constructing
predictive models when the factors are many and highly collinear. It falls
under the category of dimensionality reduction techniques, which are used to
reduce the number of input variables in a model without losing too much
information.

One of the most common use cases of PLSR is in the field of chemometrics,
where it is used to analyze spectroscopic data. Spectroscopy is a technique
used to measure the interaction between matter and electromagnetic radiation.
The resulting spectra contain a large number of variables, which can be highly
correlated. PLSR can be used to reduce the number of variables and build
predictive models for various chemical properties.

Another application of PLSR is in the field of genetics, where it can be used
to analyze gene expression data. Gene expression is the process by which
genetic information is used to synthesize proteins. Microarray technology is
often used to measure gene expression levels, resulting in a large number of
variables that are highly correlated. PLSR can be used to identify the most
important genes and build predictive models for various diseases.

PLSR has also been used in the field of finance, where it has been applied to
build predictive models for stock prices. Stock prices are influenced by a
large number of variables, such as company financials, economic indicators,
and news events. PLSR can be used to identify the most important variables and
build predictive models for future stock prices.

Lastly, PLSR has been used in the field of image analysis, where it can be
used to analyze images containing a large number of pixels. PLSR can be used
to identify the most important features in the images and build predictive
models for various applications, such as facial recognition and object
detection.

## Getting Started

Partial Least Squares Regression (PLSR) is a dimensionality reduction
technique used for constructing predictive models when the factors are many
and highly collinear. It is a supervised learning method that can be used for
regression and classification tasks.

To get started with PLSR, you can use the scikit-learn library in Python. Here
is an example code snippet:

    
    
    
    import numpy as np
    from sklearn.cross_decomposition import PLSRegression
    
    # create sample data
    X = np.array([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6], [7, 8, 9], [10, 11, 12]])
    Y = np.array([1, 2, 3, 4])
    
    # create PLSR object and fit the model
    plsr = PLSRegression(n_components=2)
    plsr.fit(X, Y)
    
    # predict new values
    new_X = np.array([[2, 3, 4], [5, 6, 7]])
    predicted_Y = plsr.predict(new_X)
    
    print(predicted_Y)
    
    

In this example, we first create sample data X and Y. X is a matrix with 4
rows and 3 columns, and Y is a vector with 4 elements. We then create a
PLSRegression object with 2 components and fit the model using the fit()
method. Finally, we use the predict() method to predict new values for a new X
matrix.

## FAQs

### What is Partial Least Squares Regression (PLSR)?

Partial Least Squares Regression (PLSR) is a method for constructing
predictive models when the factors are many and highly collinear. It is a
technique that uses a linear regression model to analyze the relationship
between the predictor variables and the response variable.

### What is the abbreviation for Partial Least Squares Regression?

The abbreviation for Partial Least Squares Regression is PLSR.

### What type of algorithm is Partial Least Squares Regression?

Partial Least Squares Regression is a dimensionality reduction algorithm. It
is commonly used to extract important features from a large set of variables
by projecting them onto a smaller dimensional space.

### What is the learning method used in Partial Least Squares Regression?

Partial Least Squares Regression is a supervised learning method. It requires
a labeled dataset to train a model that can then be used to predict the
response variable in new data.

### What are some applications of Partial Least Squares Regression?

PLSR is commonly used in chemometrics, where it is used to analyze data from
spectroscopy, chromatography, and other analytical techniques. It is also used
in other fields such as genetics, finance, and marketing to build predictive
models and identify important features.

## Partial Least Squares Regression: ELI5

Imagine you're trying to bake a cake, but you have a bunch of ingredients that
are all very similar, like different kinds of sugar. It's hard to know exactly
how each sugar affects the final cake because they're all so similar and
combined in different ways. This is similar to what happens when we have a lot
of variables that are all related to each other. Partial Least Squares
Regression (PLSR) helps us select only the most important variables and
combine them in a way that predicts an outcome. It's like having a recipe that
tells you exactly which sugars to use and how much of each one to add to make
the perfect cake.

So, PLSR is a method for creating models to predict outcomes when we have lots
of related variables. It helps us identify which variables are most important
and how they should be combined to get accurate predictions.

PLRS is a type of dimensionality reduction where it combines similar variables
and uses them to create predictors for the outcome variable.

PLRS only works as a supervised learning method, which means we need to have a
set of data where we know the outcome variable in order to train the model to
make accurate predictions.

In short, PLSR helps us pick out the most important variables from a large,
related set of data and use them to predict an outcome, like baking a cake
with only the best sugars.

  *[MCTS]: Monte Carlo Tree Search
[Partial Least Squares Regression](https://serp.ai/partial-least-squares-regression/)
