# Understanding Principal Component Regression: Definition, Explanations,
Examples & Code

Principal Component Regression (PCR) is a **dimensionality reduction**
technique that combines **Principal Component Analysis (PCA)** and regression.
It first extracts the principal components of the predictors and then performs
a linear regression on these components. PCR is a **supervised learning**
method that can be used to improve the performance of regression models by
reducing the number of predictors and removing multicollinearity.

## Principal Component Regression: Introduction

Domains | Learning Methods | Type  
---|---|---  
Machine Learning | Supervised | Dimensionality Reduction  
  
Principal Component Regression (PCR) is a dimensionality reduction technique
that combines Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and regression. It is
commonly used in the field of machine learning as a supervised learning
method. PCR extracts the principal components of the predictors and performs a
linear regression on these components, allowing for more efficient and
accurate modeling. This technique is particularly useful when working with
datasets that have high variability and a large number of predictors.

## Principal Component Regression: Use Cases & Examples

Principal Component Regression (PCR) is a dimensionality reduction technique
that combines Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and regression. It is used in
supervised learning to help reduce the number of predictors, which can lead to
better model performance and faster computation time.

One use case of PCR is in the field of bioinformatics, where it has been used
to analyze gene expression data. In one study, PCR was used to predict the
expression of genes related to breast cancer based on a large set of
predictors. The results showed that PCR was able to accurately predict the
expression of these genes while reducing the number of predictors by over 90%.

PCR has also been used in finance to predict stock prices. In one study, PCR
was used to analyze a large set of economic indicators and predict the future
prices of various stocks. The results showed that PCR was able to accurately
predict stock prices while reducing the number of predictors by over 50%.

Another use case of PCR is in the field of image processing. In one study, PCR
was used to analyze a large set of image features and predict the likelihood
of a patient having a certain disease. The results showed that PCR was able to
accurately predict the likelihood of the disease while reducing the number of
predictors by over 80%.

PCR is a powerful tool for reducing the number of predictors in a supervised
learning problem. It has been used in a variety of fields, including
bioinformatics, finance, and image processing, to help improve model
performance and reduce computation time.

## Getting Started

Principal Component Regression (PCR) is a technique that combines Principal
Component Analysis (PCA) and regression. It first extracts the principal
components of the predictors and then performs a linear regression on these
components. PCR is a type of dimensionality reduction and is used in
supervised learning.

To get started with PCR, you can use Python and common ML libraries like
numpy, pytorch, and scikit-learn. Here's an example code using scikit-learn:

    
    
    
    import numpy as np
    from sklearn.decomposition import PCA
    from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression
    from sklearn.pipeline import Pipeline
    
    # Create a dataset
    X = np.array([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6], [7, 8, 9], [10, 11, 12]])
    y = np.array([1, 2, 3, 4])
    
    # Create a pipeline with PCA and Linear Regression
    pipe = Pipeline([('pca', PCA(n_components=2)), ('reg', LinearRegression())])
    
    # Fit the pipeline on the dataset
    pipe.fit(X, y)
    
    # Predict on new data
    new_X = np.array([[2, 3, 4], [5, 6, 7]])
    predictions = pipe.predict(new_X)
    
    print(predictions)
    
    

## FAQs

### What is Principal Component Regression (PCR)?

Principal Component Regression (PCR) is a technique that combines Principal
Component Analysis (PCA) and regression. It first extracts the principal
components of the predictors and then performs a linear regression on these
components.

### What is the abbreviation of Principal Component Regression?

The abbreviation of Principal Component Regression is PCR.

### What type of technique is Principal Component Regression?

PCR is a type of dimensionality reduction technique.

### What type of learning does Principal Component Regression use?

PCR uses supervised learning methods.

## Principal Component Regression: ELI5

Principal Component Regression (PCR) is a technique that is used to reduce the
complexity of a problem by simplifying the data. It's like using a magnifying
glass to look at small details in a big picture, but only focusing on the most
important information. In other words, it combines two methods - Principal
Component Analysis and regression - to help us make sense of large amounts of
data.

Here's how it works: first, PCR uses Principal Component Analysis to extract
the most important features (or "components") of the data. Think of it like
finding the most important puzzle pieces to fit together to make a clear
picture. Then, it uses these components to perform a linear regression, which
helps us predict future outcomes based on the patterns in the data we've
already seen.

In simpler terms, think of it like your brain trying to solve a math problem.
You might start with a long and complex equation, but then you use shortcuts
to break it down into smaller components that are easier to work with. PCR
does something similar with data - it takes a complicated problem and breaks
it down into simpler components that we can more easily analyze and
understand.

So overall, PCR helps us make sense of large and complex data sets by
extracting the most important features and then using them to make predictions
about future events.

Some potential use-cases for PCR include predicting housing prices based on
key features like location and size, or analyzing customer behavior to predict
future sales. Essentially, any problem that involves large amounts of data and
complex patterns can benefit from the use of PCR.

  *[MCTS]: Monte Carlo Tree Search
[Principal Component Regression](https://serp.ai/principal-component-regression/)
